feat(azure-kubernetes): add AKS Automatic readiness skill (#1837)
microsoft/GitHub-Copilot-for-Azure: plugin/skills/azure-kubernetes/azure-kubernetes-automatic-readiness/references/migration-guide-summary.md

# AKS Automatic Migration Guide

Loaded when user asks about migration steps or after assessment is complete.

---

## Migration Checklist

### Phase 1 — Assessment (this skill)

> - [ ] Run `assessAutomaticCompatibility` against the existing cluster (or offline manifest scan)

Reviewer: Commits f50acea and 9b5889a removed the hardcoded `assessAutomaticCompatibility` action name from `mcp-integration.md` and `SKILL.md` (replacing it with the discover-then-invoke pattern), but this file wasn't touched. Line 11 still reads "Run `assessAutomaticCompatibility` against the existing cluster". Users following the migration checklist will try to invoke that specific action name directly, which is what the earlier cleanup was trying to avoid.

```suggestion
- [ ] Run the AKS Automatic compatibility assessment (via `mcp_azure_mcp_aks({ action: "discover" })` then the assessment action returned, or the offline manifest scan)
```

| Requirement | AKS Automatic default | What to do |
|---|---|---|
| API Server VNet Integration | Required, auto-enabled | Must use a new cluster |
| Network plugin | Azure CNI Overlay | Must use a new cluster if currently on kubenet |
| System node pool OS | Azure Linux | Recreate system node pool (user pools unaffected) |
| OIDC Issuer | Auto-enabled | Can be enabled on existing: `az aks update --enable-oidc-issuer` |
| Workload Identity | Auto-enabled | Can be enabled on existing: `az aks update --enable-workload-identity` |

---

## What AKS Automatic Auto-Enables

No manual setup needed for these — show this list when user asks "what do I get for free":

| Feature | Benefit |
|---|---|
| Node Auto Provisioning (NAP) | Replaces cluster autoscaler; right-sizes node pools automatically |
| Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) | Auto-tunes resource requests after deployment |
| Azure Monitor Container Insights | Logs, metrics, and dashboards out of the box |
| Deployment Safeguards | 27 deny policies + 2 active webhook mutators at admission (resource-requests defaults + anti-affinity/topology-spread; 20 Azure Policy mutation definitions exist but were never activated) |

> | Pod Security Standards (Baseline) | Enforced cluster-wide; Restricted available opt-in |

Reviewer 2: any changes to safeguards are blocked on automatic clusters, so users won't be able to opt in to the Restricted PSS enforcement

  --sku automatic \
  --location <location> \
  --generate-ssh-keys
```

> 💡 **Tip:** AKS Automatic auto-enables: OIDC issuer, workload identity, Azure CNI Overlay, NAP, VPA, Azure Monitor Container Insights, Deployment Safeguards, and Pod Security Standards (Baseline). No manual configuration needed for these.

### Phase 3 — Validate on New Cluster

```bash
# Get credentials
az aks get-credentials \
  --resource-group <resource-group> \
  --name <new-cluster-name>

# Dry-run server-side apply — catches admission policy rejections
kubectl apply --dry-run=server -f <manifests-directory>/

# Deploy to a staging namespace first
kubectl create namespace staging
kubectl apply -f <manifests-directory>/ -n staging

# Watch pod startup
kubectl get pods -n staging -w

# Check events for admission rejections
kubectl get events -n staging --sort-by=.lastTimestamp | grep -i "denied\|error\|failed"
```

### Phase 4 — Switch Traffic

```bash
# Update your Ingress/DNS to point to the new cluster's load balancer
kubectl get svc -n <ingress-namespace> -o wide

# Monitor with Container Insights (already enabled)
# View in Azure Portal → AKS cluster → Monitoring → Insights
```

> > ⚠️ **Keep the old cluster running** for a rollback window (recommended: 48 hours minimum).

Reviewer 3: there's is no capability in aks to do a migration from cluster a to cluster b like phase 4 here. an aks automatic cluster should always pass the cluster configuration test mentioned in phase 2(I will test)

Author: Sure, gentle fyi @sabbour 🧙  for above. Thanks all.
